What I'd like you to do is I'm gonna
go ahead and commit this code and
then you're gonna practice
creating a dishStore.
And so now we're gonna migrate that
over and see how far you can get and
then I'll see you all on the other side.
I know for me once I started using
Pinia like I was just so glad to not
have to write mutations anymore and
just do the thing I want you to do,
thank you and track it for
me like all that goodness.
Okay so, let me go and make sure I
push up the latest 10 exercise branch.
I think some people might have
done it I didn't make, so
what I did do I guess for
the purpose of record keeping.
Is that if you check out the 10
dash exercise branch you'll notice
that restaurant page has been properly
like refactored to use all of this store.
So basically a couple of things just
to point out is that the number of
restaurants have actually restored.
Because in this case we're doing
the filtered restaurant list and
I haven't exactly moved
that to the store just yet.
So this is a different type of number
of restaurants versus the store number
of restaurants,
which is like call it the master copy
of all the stores in perpetuity.
Okay, so with that your job was
to refactor the dishes page so
let's go and do that.
So creating a new store
was the DishStore.ts and
then we'll import defineStore.
And then once we do that we can export
a const called useDishstore, and
then define the store and
what's the idea gonna be called?
We're gonna call it Dishstore, and
then we'll pass it an object for
the state and so we know that
the state is gonna need some shape.
So let's go ahead and just define that
now, so we'll call that StateShape, and so
for those, wondering about like,
naming is a hard thing, right?
We talk a lot about that in programming,
but the one thing I like about keeping
some of my states like types, especially
in line in my components or files.
Is that I don't have to worry about
it conflicting with something else,
because obviously StateShape is gonna mean
a lot of different things across different
components.
But for this particular store,
StateShape is just for this store so
you don't have to worry about like, I'm
gonna call it DishState, state like store.
That's only relevant when you
share it across multiple files but
don't be afraid to inline your types
directly on the file that is working.
I'm a big fan of like,
I call it like data driven refactoring,
where you actually show that you
have repeated code across paces.
Then that's when you take the time to
actually modularize it, start distracting,
refactoring.
So that said, we do know for a fact
that we'll have a list similarly, and
we'll have a dish that will be an array,
so that's basically all we need to know.
So there's my list and then I can grab
all of this stuff here bump up about
My gosh, it's not scrolling the way I
want it to all right, doing it manually.
Great cut then we can now
define that here great
that looks good then filterlist or
dishlist, so
we say dishlist equal
useDishStore like that.
Although I realize the dishstore should
actually be dishstore first, and
we'll use that.
And then we'll say DishStore dot list,
just for
like helping things clean up
a little bit there we go.
On this list that filter does
not exist on property ref dish
there's a duplicate
reference that's why dish,
dish dish,
dish,and then dishlist that's fine.
The only thing though that's
kind of interesting is that it
is saying that dish does not match dish,
this is an interesting overload okay,
why is it yelling at me
well that makes sense.
I never actually defined the state shape
I defined it up here did not use it so
now that I've saved it,
now this error goes away.
Again so what's nice is that
as you sprinkle in TypeScript
it shows you the errors that
makes sense as you go, right?
And so as we can see here it's not overly
intrusive and it's overall throughout
the switcher, you've seen a multi
line multiple times catch me.
In an area where I might have just
moved on and just be like, hey,
something's funky here,
you might have left something off.
And that is really valuable for
us as developers so
let's keep going number of dishes.
We're going to keep this the same
because as I mentioned earlier,
this is actually contingent on
the filter text that's happening.
And so we're gonna leave that alone
we're not gonna worry about that.
But all this stuff, these are actions
that we can take so let's actually yes,
I can take this, so
these actions are gonna get defined here.
Actions, boom and then we'll take that and
then once again actions should be just
like normal functions not arrow functions.
Because we're gonna need to
access the entire store, and
then from here we can basically
say state dot this dot list
dot push dot payload,
lists dot push, that's good.
That's not necessary right
now then we can say,
this dot list is equal to this dot list
dot filter that filters everything,
they'll go ahead and filter everything.
So now when we come to refactor this, we
still need this hideform functionality, so
it's for
that reason that we'll go ahead and
just do dishStore.addDish
will be dropping the payload.
However, for deleteDish,
this is basically identical so
really we don't need to actually
even create a function here.
What we can do is inside of
word delete dish exists we'll
just call it dishstore dot deletedish.
And one of the things I really liked about
this sort of modular declaration of store
because some people will be like,
well, I wanna destructure it and
I wanna like make it trimmer.
But think about it,
the fact that immediately on line 31 this
is coming from a global store
that is incredibly valuable.
I think for debugging, especially as we
know, as code bases get more complex,
the likelihood for name clashing and
that kind of stuff happens.
So to me, just being a little bit more
declarative but knowing instantly what it
is, comprehension is huge when it
comes to code maintainability, so
personally, I'm huge fan of this.
Okay, that's that, that's that,
that's that I think that's it so
now we have everything in here dishlists
yeah, dishStore this is great.